Updates and Revisions to the Cloud Docker Documentation (#6363)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/docker/docker-containers-service.md

---
group: cloud-guide
title: Docker services containers
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
  - Docker
  - Configuration
---

The following containers provide the services required to build, deploy and run {{site.data.var.ee}} sites.

{:.bs-callout-info}
See the [service version values available]({{ site.baseurl }}/cloud/docker/docker-containers.html#service-versions) for use when launching Docker.

### Database Container

#### Container Information

-  Name: db
-  Docker Base Image: [mariadb](https://hub.docker.com/_/mariadb)
-  Ports Exposed 3306

#### Container Usage

> To import a database dump, place the SQL file into the `.docker/mysql/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import a database dump, place the SQL file into the `.docker/mysql/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` directory.
```

---
group: cloud-guide

> title: Docker Services Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Docker services containers
```

functional_areas:
  - Cloud
  - Docker
  - Configuration
---

> ## Service Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The following containers provide the services required to build, deploy and run Magento 2 sites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following containers provide the services required to build, deploy and run {{site.data.var.ee}} sites.
```

{:.bs-callout-info}
See the [service version values available]({{ site.baseurl }}/cloud/docker/docker-containers.html#service-versions) for use when launching Docker.

### Database Container

#### Container Information

-  Name: db
-  Docker Base Image: [mariadb](https://hub.docker.com/_/mariadb)
-  Ports Exposed 3306

#### Container Usage

To import a database dump, place the SQL file into the `.docker/mysql/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` folder.

> > When a container is started for the first time, a new database with the specified name will be created and initialized with the provided configuration variables. Furthermore, it will execute files with extensions .sh, .sql and .sql.gz that are found in /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d. Files will be executed in alphabetical order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a container is started for the first time, a new database with the specified name is created and initialized with the provided configuration variables. Furthermore, it will execute files with extensions .sh, .sql and .sql.gz that are found in the `/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` directory. Files will be executed in alphabetical order.
```

From: [mariadb docker documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/mariadb)

Although it is a more complex approach, you can use GZIP by _sharing_ the `.sql.gz` file using the `.docker/mnt` directory and importing it inside the Docker container.

> MySQL configuration can be injected into the container at creation. The following two examples show how this is done, either via an included `my.cnf` file, or setting the variables correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MySQL configuration can be injected into the container at creation. The following two examples show how this is done, either using an included `my.cnf` file, or setting the variables correctly.
```

Add a custom `my.cnf` via the `docker-compose.override.yml` file:
```yaml
  db:
    volumes:
      - path/to/custom.my.cnf:/etc/mysql/conf.d/custom.my.cnf
```

> Alternatively config values can be set in the environment section of the docker-compose.override.yml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can set config values in the environment section of the docker-compose.override.yml:
```

```yaml
  db:
    environment:
      - innodb-buffer-pool-size=134217728
```

### Elasticsearch Container

#### Container Information

-  Name: elasticsearch
-  Docker Base Image: [magento/magento-cloud-docker-elasticsearch](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-elasticsearch)
-  Docker Image Based On: [elasticsearch](https://hub.docker.com/_/elasticsearch)
-  Ports Exposed: 9200,9300

#### Container Usage

> Standard Elasticsearch container with required plugins and configurations for Magento 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standard Elasticsearch container with required plugins and configurations for {{ site.data.var.ee}}.
```

### FPM Container

#### Container Information

-  Name: fpm
-  Docker Base Image: [magento/magento-cloud-docker-php](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-php)
-  Docker Image Based On: [php](https://hub.docker.com/_/php)
-  Ports Exposed: 9000,9001

#### Container Usage

> It is possible to load custom extensions in the FPM configuration, these are configured in the generic container in docker-compose.yml, but should be overrode in docker-compose.override.yml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can  load custom extensions in the FPM configuration. Configure these in the generic container in the `docker-compose.yml` file, but also include them in the `docker-compose.override.yml` file so customizations are preserved when you upgrade.
```

```bash
  generic:
    environment:
     - 'PHP_EXTENSIONS=bcmath bz2 calendar exif gd gettext intl mysqli pcntl pdo_mysql soap sockets sysvmsg sysvsem sysvshm opcache zip redis xsl xdebug'
```

> More information about configuring the php environment can be found in the [XDebug for Docker]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/docker/docker-development-debug.html) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional information about configuring the php environment, see the [XDebug for Docker]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/docker/docker-development-debug.html) documentation.
```

### Rabbitmq Container

#### Container Information

-  Name: rabbitmq
-  Docker Base Image: [rabbitmq](https://hub.docker.com/_/rabbitmq)
-  Ports Exposed: 4369,5671,5672,25672

#### Container Usage

Standard RabbitMQ Container, with no configuration or changes from Magento Cloud Docker.

### Redis Container

#### Container Information

-  Name: redis
-  Docker Base Image: [redis](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis)
-  Ports Exposed: 6379

#### Container Usage

> A standard redis container with no customizations, no persistence or configuration is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A standard Redis container with no customizations, no persistence or configuration is used.
```

See the [service version values available]({{ site.baseurl }}/cloud/docker/docker-containers.html#service-versions) for use when launching Docker.

### Database Container

#### Container Information
 - Name: db
 - Base Image: [mariadb](https://hub.docker.com/_/mariadb)
-  Ports Exposed 3306

#### Container Usage

To import a database dump, place the SQL file into the `.docker/mysql/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` folder.

> When a container is started for the first time, a new database with the specified name will be created and initialized with the provided configuration variables. Furthermore, it will execute files with extensions .sh, .sql and .sql.gz that are found in /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d. Files will be executed in alphabetical order. 

From: [mariadb docker documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/mariadb)

Although it is a more complex approach, you can use GZIP by _sharing_ the `.sql.gz` file using the `.docker/mnt` directory and importing it inside the Docker container.

MySQL configuration can be injected into the container at creation. The following two examples show how this is done, either via an included my.cnf file, or setting the variables correctly. 

> Add a custom my.cnf via the docker-compose.override.yml file:

Reviewer 2: Files should be highlighted

Author: HIghlighted all the filenames in this stanza, were there others I missed?

```
  db:
    volumes:       

>       - path/to/custom.my.cnf:/etc/mysql/conf.d/custom.my.cnf

Reviewer 2: Good one!

Author: Thanks, lots of little things like this throughout the additions I made. More coming once we resolve this stuff.

To increase the timeout on this container use the following in docker-compose.override.yml:
```
  tls:
    environment:
      - TIMEOUT=600
```

### Varnish Container

#### Container Information
 - Name: varnish
- Base Image: [magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish)
   - Based on: [centos](https://hub.docker.com/_/centos)
-  Ports Exposed: 80

#### Container Usage
The Varnish container is based on the [magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish) image. Varnish works on port 80.

`VARNISHD_PARAMS` and other environment variables can be specified using ENV, changing required parameters. This is typically done in the docker-compose.override.yml.

```
  varnish:
    environment: 
      - VARNISHD_PARAMS="-p default_ttl=3600 -p default_grace=3600 -p feature=+esi_ignore_https -p feature=+esi_disable_xml_check"
```

You can clear/invalidate the Varnish cache using the following command

```bash
docker-compose exec varnish varnishadm ban req.url '~' '.'
```

### Web Container

#### Container Information
 - Name: web

> - Base Image: [magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish)

Reviewer 2: This should be nginx

Author: Fixed, missed this one.
